A religious organization that preaches very strict adherence to [[Accena]] oral lore. 

This sect of [[Accenalore]] holds a bloodthirsty reverence for the [[Accena]], specifically the words themselves. Dicats will often have raging debates about how very specific orations of the histories should be interpreted. These differences may mean little to the average practitioner of an [[Accenalore]] faith but to a Dicat these distinctions can cause faction breaks within the Dicat.

The Dicat is a very sequestered sect of [[Accenalore]]. While the member are literally willing to kill over their interpretation of [[Accena]], they are rarely seen outside of their solitary monasteries. It should be noted though that if you find yourself in an altercation with a Dicat, if you do not share their specific interpretation of [[Accena]] they are encouraged to view you as an "unbeliever" and they are encouraged to kill "unbelievers".

It is widely believed that the Dicat are in some way responsible for the loss of the Eighth History, known now almost exclusively as the Forbidden History. We know very little detail but that the Eighth History existed at the start of the [[First Information Era]] but wiped from existence by the end of that era. (*It is at this time that I would remind you that this is oral lore.*)

(*The use of the term "unbeliever" above is a bit important. [[Accenalore]] faiths tend to not be about belief in the strictest sense. They don't really believe in a god and while whether the stories in the histories are true can be a point of contention from sect to sect, it isn't really the basis of their faith. Most [[Accenalore]] faiths are about interpreting the histories' lessons and how to use them. The Dicat are the only relatively mainstream sect that uses this form of believer and non-believer dichotomy to create an in and out group. Most sects still have this but more as a distinction of beliefs and a weight of political or financial power but not as a point of religious morality.*)