The Westarmes Divide is a split down the center of the continent, 400 miles wide at the center. This divide is on average 200 feet below the average ground level of the continent much like a canyon except this divide was not created by flowing water of eons. It was created in one hour at the end of the Second War Era by a desperate man who wanted an end to war. He achieved his goal but in the process killed a million people and left the center of the continent ravaged, near uninhabitable by humans and poisoning the ground of the divide with a sort of magical fallout.

Over the 400 hundred years since the disaster, wildlife has returned to the divide but it has changed as a result. The things that love in the divide cannot be found anywhere else. They have been altered by the magic. The wildlife as well as the magic poisoning makes the Divide a very dangerous place for humans to be. None the less, there is a city in the center of the divide. This city sits in the same spot as four cities have before.

At the end of the Primordial Era a city was founded and from it Accena was first spoken. This city was called [[Anadareaat]]. This city is considered the birthplace of Accenalore. 

During the First War Era, [[Anadareaat]] was destroyed. It was soon rebuilt and continued to go by the name of [[Anadareaat]], however it did not make it more than 60 years before it was destroyed again during the Second War Era. It was hastily rebuilt in the middle of the Second War era but was renamed to The Third City. The Third City was also short lived The Third City was the epicenter of the Disaster that created the Westarmes Divide. 

The Disaster ended the Second War Era and ushered in the [[First Era of Peace (Last Era of Peace) |First Era of Peace]], during which many ventures were made into the divide. Many ended in tragedy for all involved as they died from the magic poisoning within the divide but others figured out that steps could be taken to prevent exposure and that the undertaking of crossing the divide could be done. To aid in crossing the divide another city was built on the ruins of The Third City. This city was built entirely on boardwalks and stilts as to keep the city away from the poisoned ground below. It served originally as a waypoint between the two halves of the continent but as it grew it became a hub for travel and trade. As it grew larger it was name [[The Fourth City]]. 

[[The Fourth City]] lasted longer than any of its predecessors but was torn down and rebuilt in the middle of the [[Second Magical Era]] as the city had reached its breaking point and a method for purifying the ground of the divide was developed so the city was rebuilt yet again. This city is what we know today as [[The Fifth City]].